The dataset in DM.zip contains the following:
1. 64 input geometries made of NURBS surface. Each input geometry contains 3 smesh
files for three surfaces which are interacting in the analysis. these smesh files contain
the position of the control points.
2. Deformed geometry (at 80th time step and 140th time step of the analysis) for the
64 geometries at 5 thickness and 3 pressure conditions.
Each of the geometry is placed in folder run1-64. Each of the smesh file contains the
following:
• First 4 lines talk about the no. of components, the DOF, number of nodal points
and something about the post-processing. You might find it easy to skip these 4
lines while parsing through the file.
• After the line 4, x,y and z coordinates of each node is specified. For simplicity, all
the geometries are having 17 and 12 nodes in two directions of the surface.
Each of the final geometry is named as result tstep temp pressure geometry, where tstep
refers to the time step of the deformed geometry (80 and 140). temp refers to the 5
temperatures (300K, 350K, 400K, 450K, 500K) and pressure refers to 3 pressure condi-
tions (76mmHg, 80mmHg, 84mmHg) and geometry refers to the 64 geometries. Each file
contains the final deformation of all the nodes of the three surfaces in the same order as
the smesh files (skip line 1 which contains time step and analysis relevant details). Using
the following data, perform the following tasks:
1. Create two ordered pairs of (input,output) corresponding to two time steps. Here,
input refers to tuple of (geometry, temperature, pressure). Since, each of the geome-
try contains 17×12 nodes. Construct an array of shape 17×12×3 for each geometry.
Shape of one element of the ordered pair may look something like ([[17,12,3],[1,],[1,]],
[[17,12,3]]).
2. Consider the input geometry and output geometry to be images with three channels
(x, y and z channels instead of RGB channels). Since, the range of x, y and z channel
are completely different, we would like to apply PCA whitening to normalize the
data. Refer to links below for more information on how to whiten an image
• http://ufldl.stanford.edu/tutorial/unsupervised/PCAWhitening/
• http://ufldl.stanford.edu/tutorial/unsupervised/ExercisePCAWhitening/
You would need to whiten all the input geometries, output geometries of both the
time steps.
3. Once, the output images are whitened, vectorize the output images of time-step 80
and use that for plotting t-SNE. While plotting the t-SNE, you would need to create
three plots to mark the labels of the data based on geometry, temperatures and
pressures. Comment on the data distribution based on the t-SNE results in terms
of geometry, temperatures and pressures. You could use any of the implementations
available at https://lvdmaaten.github.io/tsne/.
4
