Flow stress prediction at different strain, strain-rate, and temperatures is required for
warm forming of sheet metals. In simulations, this flow stress is very important for ac-
curate simulations. Specifically for materials like Austenitic Stainless Steel which shows
a Dynamic Strain Ageing phenomenon at moderately high temperatures. In this regime,
the behavior of materials is wavy and cannot be understood well with current physical
models and phenomenological models. In this assignment, we would be trying to accu-
rately predict flow stress based on deep learning models you have learnt till now. You
will build a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) network for this assignment.
1. Data Loading: Load the data provided in the Excel Sheets in DM (1).zip. Different
Excel sheets represent the behavior of the material at different strain rates and
temperatures. Each Excel sheet contains the data about the variation of stress with
strain. You may use, just the true stress vs. plastic strain data for the analysis.
(You might have to preprocess the points by removing some points with zero stress
and zero strain).
2. Data preprocessing: Preprocess the data and create a list of strain, strain-rate,
temperature and stress.
3. Data split: Split the data pertaining into three parts (training, validation and test-
ing). Two temperatures can be selected as test data. Choose a strategy to divide
the data for training and validation (a typical strategy is to split the data into 60%
training and 40 % testing, or 80-20). Justify the strategy you select. Also, use k-fold
cross validation strategy for training.
4. Naive Learning: Considering the strain, strain rate and temperature at every
point, you need to predict the flow stress. This can be done by a naive neural
network(fully connected deep neural network, no convolutions).
5. LSTMs: build a LSTM network to predict flow stress for a given strain, strain-rate
and temperature. Do a study on the parameter study on the roll-out of the LSTM
required. Also, you might have to add zeros after the failure point to recognize the
failure of the material.
6. Deployment: The true stress and true strain results are obtained for a sheet metal.
Tensile testing is performed on a small rectangular strip, 6cm in length and the jaws
holding one end of the specimen and the other side is pulled by a displacement of
x. For all the experiments in the data, displacement is such a way that the strain
rate is constant through out the process. However, in forming, strain rate varies
non-linearly. Example: your displacement could be represented as x = t3 2t2 +
t. Then, predict the stress-strain curve for this profile of displacements. (Hint: you
need to use the Hooke’s law and related components to convert the x to strains and
strain rates and then eventually computing the stress strain curve for same)
7. Presenting results: Compare the results you obtain for training, validation and
testing data on the naive learning model and the LSTM. Visualize the stress-strain
curves of the predicted (both) and the actual. Also, visualize the stress-strain curve
for the deployment for both the learning cases.
3
